Adds `form` html attribute. (#40760)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/reference/attributes/form/index.md

---
title: "HTML attribute: form"
short-title: form
slug: Web/HTML/Reference/Attributes/form
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat:
  - html.elements.button.form
  - html.elements.fieldset.form
  - html.elements.input.form
  - html.elements.object.form
  - html.elements.output.form
  - html.elements.select.form
  - html.elements.textarea.form
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The `form` HTML attribute associates a form-associated element with a {{htmlelement("form")}} element within the same document. This attribute applies to the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}} elements.

## Values

> The `form` HTML attribute's value must be the `id` of a `<form>` element in the same document. This links the current element with the specified `<form>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `form` HTML attribute's value must be the `id` of a `<form>` element in the same document.
```

> The `form` HTML attribute's value must be the `id` of a `<form>` element in the same document. This links the current element with the specified `<form>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `id` of the `<form>` element, within the same document, with which the element should be associated.
```

## Usage Notes

By default, form controls are associated with their nearest ancestor {{htmlelement("form")}} element, and form controls that are not nested within a `<form>` are not associated with any form. The `form` attribute enables overriding these default behaviors.

> {{domxref("HTMLFormElement.elements")}} form elements, including the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}}, have a `form` content attribute that allows you to specify an explicit form owner. In other words, the `form` attribute can be used to associate a listed form control from anywhere within a document with any `<form>` element in the document, even if the control is not nested in a `<form>` or nested in a different `<form>`. When the form is submitted, the names and values of the `<form>` element's associated controls are submitted, whether or not they are physically nested in the `<form>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `form` attribute of the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}} element allows you to specify an explicit form owner, enabling you to associate a listed form control from anywhere within a document with any `<form>` element in the same document, even if the control is not nested in a `<form>` or nested in a different `<form>`. When a form is submitted, the names and values of the `<form>` element's associated controls are submitted, whether or not the form controls are physically nested within that `<form>`.
```

The `form` attribute takes as its value the `id` of a `<form>` element in the same document, thereby associating the form control on which it is set with that `<form>`. All other values are ignored.

While setting the attribute value to the `id` of the nearest ancestor `<form>` isn't necessary, explicitly defining the association between the form control and its form ensures the association isn't disassociated if scripts or malformed HTML result in that specific `<form>` not being the nearest form ancestor of the control.

> The `form` attribute can be used to associate a form control nested in one `<form>` with another `<form>`. In this case, the username `<input>` is nested within the `internalForm`, but the `form` attribute disassociates the control from it's ancestor form in which it is nested, and associates it with the `externalForm` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `form` attribute can be used to associate a form control nested in one `<form>` with another `<form>`. 

In this code example, the username `<input>` is nested within the `internalForm`, but the `form` attribute disassociates the control from it's ancestor form in which it is nested, and associates it with the `externalForm` instead:
```

```html
<form id="externalForm"></form>
<form id="internalForm">
  <label for="username">Username:</label>
  <input form="externalForm" type="text" name="username" id="username" />
</form>
```

In this case, the username will be submitted when the `externalForm` is submitted, while the `internalForm` has no associated form controls.

> The `form` attribute only associates the element on which it is set. When used on a `<fieldset>` element it only associates the `<fieldset>`; it does **not** automatically associate the form controls nested within that `<fieldset>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `form` attribute only associates the element on which it is set. When used on a `<fieldset>` element it only associates the `<fieldset>`; it does **not** automatically associate the form controls nested within that `<fieldset>`.
```

> In this example, the `<fieldset>` and `username` `<input>` are associated with the`exampleForm`, but the`password` is not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `<fieldset>` and `username` `<input>` are associated with the`exampleForm`, and included in the {{domxref("HTMLFormControlsCollection")}} of the {{domxref("HTMLFormElement.elements")}} property, but the`password` is not, while only the `username` will be included when the `exampleForm` is submitted:
```

```html
<form id="exampleForm"></form>

<fieldset form="exampleForm">
  <legend>Login information</legend>
  <label
    >Username: <input form="exampleForm" type="text" name="username"
  /></label>
  <label>Password: <input type="password" name="password" /></label>
</fieldset>
```

Each nested element needs its own `form` attribute or must be nested inside the form. You can check which elements are associated with a form via JavaScript, using [HTMLFormElement.elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLFormElement/elements).
Including the `form` attribute does not mean the element will be submitted with the form. Only submittable elements, including `<button>`, `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea`>, have their name and values submitted when their associated `<form>` is submitted.

In this case, even though the `<output>` is implicitly then explicitly associated with the `calcForm`, the `result` is not submitted along with `a` and `b` when `calcForm` is submitted.

> When used as an attribute for `<output>` element, its name and value are **not** submitted with the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used as an attribute for `<output>` element, its name and value are **not** submitted with the form, but are part of the form's `HTMLFormControlsCollection`.
```

```html
<form id="calcForm">
  <label>First number: <input id="a" value="2" type="number" /></label>
  <label>Second number: <input id="b" value="3" type="number" /></label>
  <label>Sum: <output name="result" for="a b" form="calcForm">5</output></label>
</form>
```

## Examples

### Basic example

> This example demonstrates how form-associated elements can be associated to a `<form>` element using the `form` attribute, even if they are not explicitly nested inside it. All of the form-associated elements shown in this example are associated with the `loginForm` either implicitly by being directly nested inside the form (without a `form` attribute disassociating it by associated it with a different `<form>` in the document) or explicitly via the `form` attribute. When the login form is submitted, the names and values of each submittable element will be included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how form-associated elements can be associated with a `<form>` element using the `form` attribute, even if they are not explicitly nested inside it. All of the form-associated elements shown in this example are associated with the `loginForm` either implicitly, by being directly nested inside the form (without a `form` attribute disassociating it by being associated with a different `<form>` in the document), or explicitly via the `form` attribute. When the login form is submitted, the names and values of each submittable element will be included.
```

```html
<form id="loginForm">
  <label>Username: <input type="text" name="username" /></label>
</form>

<label
  >Password: <input form="loginForm" type="password" name="password"
/></label>
<label>
  Choose an option:
  <select form="loginForm" name="options">
    <option value="A">A</option>
    <option value="B">B</option>
  </select>
</label>
<label
  >Description:
  <textarea form="loginForm" rows="4" name="description">
Hello, World!</textarea
  >
</label>
<button form="loginForm" type="submit" name="submitLogin" value="Login">
  Submit
</button>
```

### Element associated with a different form

> This example demonstrates how an element's `form` attribute can associate the element with a form while dissociating from it's closest ancestor form. We have two `<form>` elements: `parentForm` and `targetForm`. The `button` inside `parentForm` has its `form` attribute set to `targetForm`, disassociating it from the nearest ancestor `parentForm` while associating it with the target form. When the submit button is activated, it submits `targetForm`, not its `parentForm` ancestor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how an element's `form` attribute can associate the element with a form while dissociating itself from it's closest ancestor form. We have two `<form>` elements: `parentForm` and `targetForm`. The `<button>` inside `parentForm` has its `form` attribute set to `targetForm`, disassociating it from the nearest ancestor `parentForm` while associating it with the target form. When the submit button is activated, it submits `targetForm`, not its `parentForm` ancestor.
```

```html
<form id="targetForm">
  <input type="text" name="targetInput" />
</form>
<form id="parentForm">
  <button form="targetForm" type="submit" name="submitTarget" value="Target">
    Submit target form
  </button>
</form>
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

> {{compat}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{compat}}

## See also

- [`Overriding default form behaviors`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/input/image#overriding_default_form_behaviors)
```

---
title: "HTML attribute: form"
short-title: form
slug: Web/HTML/Reference/Attributes/form
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat:
  - html.elements.button.form
  - html.elements.fieldset.form
  - html.elements.input.form
  - html.elements.object.form
  - html.elements.output.form
  - html.elements.select.form
  - html.elements.textarea.form
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The `form` HTML attribute associates a form-associated element with a {{htmlelement("form")}} element within the same document. This attribute applies to the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}} elements.

## Values

> The `id` of the `<form>` element, within the same document, with which the element should be associated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `id` of the `<form>` element that the element should be associated with.
```

(you say that the form needs to be in the same document just above, so I don't think that needs repeating here)

## Usage notes

> By default, form controls are associated with their nearest ancestor {{htmlelement("form")}} element, while form controls that are not nested within a `<form>` are not associated with any form. The `form` attribute enables overriding these default behaviors. When a form is submitted, the names and values of the `<form>` element's associated controls are submitted, whether or not the form controls are physically nested within that `<form>`.
> 
> The `form` attribute of the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}} elements allows you to specify an explicit form owner, enabling you to associate the form control on which it is applied located anywhere within a document with any `<form>` element located in the same document. The attribute makes this possible even if the control is not nested in a `<form>` or if it's nested in a different `<form>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, form controls are associated with their nearest ancestor {{htmlelement("form")}} element, while form controls that are not nested within a `<form>` are not associated with any form. The `form` attribute enables overriding these default behaviors.

The `form` attribute of the {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("fieldset")}}, {{htmlelement("input")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("output")}}, {{htmlelement("select")}}, and {{htmlelement("textarea")}} elements allows you to specify an explicit form owner, enabling you to associate form controls located anywhere within a document with any `<form>` element located in the same document.

When a form is submitted, the names and values of the `<form>` element's associated controls are submitted, whether or not they are physically nested within that `<form>`, and even if they are nested in a different `<form>`.
```

> The `form` attribute takes as its value the `id` of a `<form>` element in the same document, thereby associating the form control on which it is set with that `<form>`. All other values set as the value of `form` attribute are ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A control's `form` attribute takes as its value the `id` of the `<form>` element you want to associate the control with. All other values set for the `form` attribute are ignored.
```

While setting the attribute value to the `id` of the nearest ancestor `<form>` isn't necessary, explicitly defining the association between a form control and its nearest ancestor form ensures the form control will not be disassociated from its form if scripts or malformed HTML result in that specific `<form>` not being the nearest form ancestor of the control.

### Associating with a non-ancestor form

The `form` attribute can be used to associate a form control nested in one `<form>` with another `<form>`.

In this code example, the username `<input>` is nested within the `internalForm`, but the `form` attribute disassociates the control from its ancestor form in which it is nested, and associates it with the `externalForm` instead:

```html
<form id="externalForm"></form>
<form id="internalForm">
  <label for="username">Username:</label>
  <input form="externalForm" type="text" name="username" id="username" />
</form>
```

In this case, the username will be submitted when the `externalForm` is submitted, while the `internalForm` has no associated form controls.

### Non-inheritance of the `form` attribute

> The `form` attribute only associates the element on which it is set. The attribute is not inherited. For example, when the `form` attribute is set on a `<fieldset>` element it only associates the `<fieldset>`; it does **not** automatically associate the form controls nested within that `<fieldset>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `form` attribute only associates the element on which it is set. The attribute behavior is not inherited. For example, when the `form` attribute is set on a `<fieldset>` element, it only associates the `<fieldset>`; it does **not** automatically associate the form controls nested within that `<fieldset>`.
```

In this example, the `<fieldset>` and `username` `<input>` are associated with the`exampleForm`, and included in the {{domxref("HTMLFormControlsCollection")}} of the {{domxref("HTMLFormElement.elements")}} property, but the`password` is not. Only the `username` will be included when the `exampleForm` is submitted:

```html
<form id="exampleForm"></form>

<fieldset form="exampleForm">
  <legend>Login information</legend>
  <label
    >Username: <input form="exampleForm" type="text" name="username"
  /></label>
  <label>Password: <input type="password" name="password" /></label>
</fieldset>
```

Each nested element needs its own `form` attribute or must be nested inside the form. You can check which elements are associated with a form via JavaScript, using [HTMLFormElement.elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLFormElement/elements).

### Form submission

> Including the `form` attribute does not mean the element will be submitted with the form. Only submittable elements, including `<button>`, `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea`>, have their name and values submitted when their associated `<form>` is submitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Including the `form` attribute does not mean the element will be submitted with the form. Only submittable elements, including `<button>`, `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea>`, have their name and values submitted when their associated `<form>` is submitted.
```

> In this case, even though the `<output>` is implicitly then explicitly associated with the `calcForm`, the `result` is not submitted along with `a` and `b` when `calcForm` is submitted.
> 
> When used as an attribute for `<output>` element, its name and value are **not** submitted with the form, but are part of the form's `HTMLFormControlsCollection`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, even though the `<output>` is implicitly then explicitly associated with the `calcForm`, the `result` is not submitted along with `a` and `b` when `calcForm` is submitted. It is, however, part of the form's `HTMLFormControlsCollection`.
```
